So I opened up the project we just created in WebStorm which is the IDE I'm using, as mentioned
earlier in the course, feel free to use any IDE or editor you want to use
and then we have these very basic simple well folder structure here.
The most important folder for us will be the source folder,
this is where we write our source code, our vuejs code
and you can see, we already got a couple of files here,
I will come back to these files in a second.
First I want to quickly guide you through the other files,
well babel here, this babel config file basically sets up babel which is a transpiler allowing
us to write ES6 code,
so this next version of javascript today
and then this transpiler will transpile it to ES5 code so that we're able to run it in any browser
and not just in the latest browsers which already support ES6 features.
That's very handy because we want to use ES6 syntax,
it gives us some shortcuts
and some nice features
we definitely want to enjoy and use. Well gitignore is just for the git version control system,
the index.html file is the file which actually gets served
so this is what we're viewing here
in the end but of course since this is a vuejs application, this file is edited by vuejs.
It's basically the html section
we were editing in JSFiddle in the other videos
and therefore it looks very well related to these videos, just that we have a full html file here
with a head too
but then in the body, we got our div with the ID app and then we get this script import here which clearly
imports our build vuejs application.
Now I'm saying build because unlike in JSFiddle, we're not writing our vuejs code and it gets
executed instantly,
instead here we're using webpack to build our files.
Now what needs to be built? Now for example if we use ES6 syntax, that needs to be transpiled to
ES5,
so webpack will do that,
it will also do a couple of other things,
I'll come back to this and will give us an output which lives in the dist folder and then in a bundled
build.js file. Bundled also means that we're able to split up our vuejs over multiple files, our vuejs
code over multiple files and it will be bundled into one file
in the end, this makes for a greater development experience while serving one file in the end too.
Now you won't see the dist folder here because in development mode, all of this is created in memory,
in the memory of your machine,
so to see this dist folder, we will have to build it for production and I will come back to this.
So this is our index.html file,
the package.json file here manage this all, the dependencies, as you can see that's vuejs
for production and then for development,
it's the webpack server then some babel related packages to be able to write ES6 code and some
other transpilers and loaders, especially the vue loader here is important since this allows us to
write, to use these single file templates to which I'll come back in a second.
Well now we got our webpack config file which is responsible for building everything
and well transpiling our code, setting up our build process and knows how to handle different files
for example, then that .vue file which we'll talk about in a second should be loaded with the vue
loader.
So that's the general setup,
let's now dive into our source folder and understand what this .vue file
here is.